# The Bad Beaches

A 2D tower-defense game developed using [Godot Engine](https://godotengine.org/) v4.5 for the [GitHub Game Off 2025](https://itch.io/jam/game-off-2025).

## Overview

The base concept is that there are unknown underwater creatures that are attacking the beaches and you need to defend them with the help of various land creatures. The game will feature multiple levels, each with unique environments related to oceans and waves and enemy types.

## Gameplay

The exact gameplay mechanics have not been finalized yet, current discussion results are listed below:

### 1. Resource system
How do players get a "resource" to deploy their allies on the field?

**Primary candidate**: Resource is generated by "generator" units that can be placed on the field. These are cheap to deploy and will not assist in combat and only passively generate resource over time.

**Alternatives**:
- Resource is generated by defeating enemies
- Resource is generated by "vanguard" units that also assist in combat but generate less resource over time

### 2. Battlefield design
How is the battlefield designed? Is it a single lane, multiple lanes, or a freeform area?

**Primary candidate**: A "grid" map with specific enemy spawn points and a specific goal point that enemies are trying to reach. Players can place their units on any grid cell that is not occupied by an obstacle or enemy spawn/goal points. Enemies do not have to follow a lane and can take a fixed but roundabout path to the goal.

**Alternatives**:
- Enemies follow a single lane (example: a straight line from left to right)
- Map can have "high ground" and "low ground" areas that affect unit placement and enemy movement.
  - High ground areas allow players to place ranged units that can attack enemies from a distance.
  - Low ground areas are more vulnerable to enemy attacks but allow players to place melee units that can block enemy movement.


### 3. Deployment strategy
What happens when players deploy their units?

**Primary candidate**: Players can deploy at any time if they have enough resources. They can also "retreat" units back to recover a portion of the deployment cost. However, retreated units will have a cooldown period before they can be redeployed.

**Alternatives**:
- Players can only deploy units at specific intervals (e.g., every 10 seconds).
- Once deployed, units cannot be retreated.

### 4. Enemy interactions
What happens when an enemy interacts with a player's unit?

**Primary candidate**: All enemies will get "blocked" by the player unit. This will stack the damage and force players into strategic placement of their units to maximize damage output. Every enemy will get blocked by the first unit they encounter until the unit is defeated or retreated.

**Alternatives**:
- Units can only block a certain number of enemies at a time (e.g. 3 for tanks, 1 for snipers, etc.) and additional will pass through to the next blocking unit.
- Some enemies can "bypass" certain unit types (e.g., flying enemies can bypass ground units).
- All units can only block 1 enemy at a time.
- All units cannot block enemies and will only deal damage from a distance.

### 5. Additional mechanics
Any additional mechanics to make the game more challenging. This is where we can do a lot of things with the event theme.

**Suggestions**:
- Wave of ocean to stun all allies/enemies it hits.
- Wave of ocean to nerf/buff all allies/enemies it hits.
- Wave of ocean comes and displaces placed units and enemies.
- Tides that change the battlfield layout (e.g., high tide covers certain areas, low tide reveals new areas).

### 6. Level preparation
How do the players decide what units they use in the level?

**Primary candidate**: All *unlocked* units are available during every level, no preparation required. Multiple of the same unit can be deployed after a cooldown and retreating also increases the cooldown. More units unlocked with progression.

**Alternatives**:
- A small deck of units is selected before level starts. All units are expected to be placed during the level.
- A large deck of units is selected before level starts. A subset is expected to be placed with a couple "reserve" units leftover for emergencies.
Both alternatives can have either multiple of same unit (eg: 3 turtle, 2 starfish, etc.) or only 1 of each unit.
